Despite USAA’s other merits (like affordable car and homeowners insurance), competitive interest rates aren’t anything to boast about at this bank. While the military-focused bank has a plethora of financial products, the checking accounts, savings accounts and certificates of deposit (CDs) have low interest rates. That means if you’re looking to earn the most with your money, you may have to look elsewhere. 

Keep in mind you have to meet eligibility criteria to even become a member of this mostly online financial institution. With just four physical locations, it’s likely that you’d do all your banking remotely if you become a member. 

 

Products Offered
Product	Key Features
USAA Savings	
$25 minimum deposit to open
No minimum balance 
USAA Performance First	
Competitive interest rates
$10,000 minimum deposit to open
No minimum balance 
USAA Checking Accounts	
Three options: Cashback Rewards Checking, Classic Checking, Youth Spending
$25 minimum deposit to open (waived for new recruits)
No minimum balance
Free ATMs nationwide
Certificates of Deposit	
Three options: variable rate, adjustable rate, fixed rate 
$250 to $1,000 minimum deposit
Term lengths from 182 days to 7 years
529 College Savings Plan	
Start with $50 initial investments (with automatic investments of $50 a month)
$250 initial investment (no automatic requirements)
10 investment portfolio options
Uniform Transfers to Minors (UTMA)/Uniform Gifts to Minors Act (UGMA)	
Custodial account for designated minors
No contribution limits but amounts above $15,000 ($30,000 for taxpayers married and filing jointly) incur federal gift tax
IRAs	
Traditional and Roth IRAs
Target retirement funds or fully self-managed
 

USAA Bank Interest Rate Comparison
0%
1%
0.5%
1.5%
2%
National Average
0.25%
USAA Bank
1.51%
USAA Bank Overview
Started as a car insurance company in 1922 by a group of Army officers, United Services Automobile Association (USAA) has grown to more than 11 million members and offers a full suite of banking options. Eligible members can choose from checking, savings and CD accounts, credit cards, mortgages, auto loans, retirement and, of course, insurance. In addition to car insurance, USAA offers personal property, health, homeowners, flood and small business insurance as well as annuities. 

Compare USAA Bank to Other Top Offers
Certificate of Deposit

APY
1.51%
Minimum Balance for APY
$1,000
Savings

APY
2.15%
Minimum Balance for APY
$100
Learn More
on CIT Bank's secure website
Money Market

APY
1.80%
Minimum Balance for APY
$25
Learn More
on BBVA Compass's secure website
USAA Account Features
Almost all of USAA’s products are mobile-friendly. This is because the company was at the forefront of direct marketing via phone and were early adopters of the internet. That means the USAA mobile app and online experience is robust. One of the most popular checking account features is that you don’t have to worry about monthly fees and ATM fees are reimbursed due to the limited number of physical branches. 

That said, USAA does not have checking or savings account interest rates that are competitive with some online banking options. What the company lacks in competitive interest, however, it makes up with having a huge array of insurance, retirement and loan options. 

USAA Savings Account
Key Features	Details
Minimum Deposit	$25
Access to Your Savings Account	Online, mobile and physical branches.
Security	FDIC insurance up to the maximum amount allowed by law. 
Fees	No monthly service fees
Current Terms and Rates	
Account balances below $1,000: 0.09% APY
Account balances of $1,000 - $4,999: 0.10% APY
Account balances of $5,000 - $9,999: 0.10% APY
Account balances $10,000 and over: 0.15% APY
A savings account is a smart place to park extra cash for emergencies, large purchases, vacations and more. At USAA, the basic savings account has no minimum daily balance, no monthly fees and features fraud protection and mobile check deposit. You need $25 to open the account, but after that, you’re not required to keep a certain amount of money in the account to keep it open. 

You’ll only earn a fraction of a percentage of interest on the account, so don’t expect large returns with this account. Even if you keep $10,000 in the account, the interest rate goes up to just 0.15%. While you can request a free ATM card for cash withdrawals, you can’t use the card for purchases.

As with all savings accounts, the government limits how many withdrawals or outgoing transfers you can make each statement cycle to six. Deposits are unlimited, but if you go over the outgoing transaction limit you can face penalties and account closure or conversion to a checking account.

USAA Performance First Savings Account
Key Features	Details
Minimum Deposit	$10,000
Access to Your Savings Account	Online, mobile and physical branches.
Security	FDIC insurance up to the maximum amount allowed by law. 
Fees	No monthly service fees
Current Terms and Rates	
Account balances below $10,000: 0.05% APY
Account balances of $10,000 - $24,999: 0.20% APY
Account balances of $25,000 - $49,999: 0.25% APY
Account balances of $50,000 and over: 0.30% APY
When you’re saving a large amount of money, say, for a down payment on a home, you want to earn some interest while your money sits in a bank. USAA’s Performance First Savings Account offers higher interest rates than its regular savings account, but you’ll need at least $10,000 to open one. 

